.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/input/magictouch/magictouch.man,v 1.3 2006/02/27 01:57:12 dawes Exp $
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH MagicTouch __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
magictouch \- MagicTouch input driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "Section \*qInputDevice\*q"
.br
.BI "  Identifier \*q" idevname \*q
.br
.B  "  Driver \*qMagicTouch\*q"
.br
.BI "  Option \*qDevice\*q   \*q" devpath \*q
.br
\ \ ...
.br
.B EndSection
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B MagicTouch
is an XFree86 input driver for MagicTouch ProE-X controller...
.PP
The
.B MagicTouch
driver functions as a pointer input device, and may be used as the
X server's core pointer.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
It currently supports the ProE-X resistive touchscreen serial (rs232) interface
and touchscreens made by Keytec, Inc (MagicTouch)
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to XF86Config(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details and for options that can be used with all input drivers.  This
section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
.PP
.PP
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qDevice\*q \*q" devpath \*q
Specify the device path for the magictouch.  Valid devices are:
.PP
.RS 12
/dev/ttyS0, /dev/ttyS1, ....
This option is mandatory.
.RE
.PP
.RS 7
It's important to specify the right device Note: com1 -> /dev/ttyS0, com2 -> /dev/ttyS1 ....

.RE
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qScreenNumber\*q \*q" screennumber \*q
sets the
.I screennumber
for the
.I magictouch
InputDevice.
.PP
.RS 7
.I Default:
ScreenNumber: "0"

.RE
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qMinX, MinY\*q \*q" value \*q
These are the minimum X and Y values for the
.I magictouch
input device.
.PP
.RS 7
Note: MinX, MinY must be less than MaxX, MaxY.
.PP
.I Range:
"0" - "32767"
.PP
.I Default:
MinX: "0"  MinY: "0"


.RE
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qMaxX, MaxY\*q \*q" value \*q
These are the maximum X and Y values for the
.I magictouch
input device.
.PP
.RS 7
Note: MaxX, MaxY must be greater than MinX, MinY.
.PP
.I Range:
"0" - "32767"
.PP
.I Default:
MaxX: "16384"  MaxY: "16384"


.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree86(1), XF86Config(__filemansuffix__), xf86config(1), Xserver(1), X(__miscmansuffix__).
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include...
